welcome to the rest of garden today I
want to show you how I prepare and use
peat moss in my garden I'm actually
winterizing my beds but you can do this
process in the winter or you cannot do
it in this spring peat moss comes in a 2
cubic foot bale actually this one sorry
is 3 cubic feet this will cost you about
$10 it comes dry it comes compressed and
peat moss is actually resistant to
absorbing water so never just put
straight dry peat moss into your garden
you want to basically water it down and
make sure it absorbs water before you
use it the way I do that is I get a 22
gallon container there's about 10
gallons of dry peat moss in there I'm
also using only organic products in this
video and I'm going to use at least half
my beds purely organic next year in 2014
the way that I'm setting this up is I'm
using one cup of bone meal I just use a
basic 8 ounce cup one cup of bone meal
that's great for the phosphorus one cup
of blood meal that's great for nitrogen
one cup of garden lime that helps raise
the pH peat moss has a pH that's four
point five to 5.5 depending on where you
get it and that's a little more acidic
lime is alkaline so what I'm trying to
do is just throw in some lime here so
this isn't too acidic I know in in doing
some soil testing my garden tends to
have a pH level of 7 so a little more
acidic peat moss isn't really going to
change the pH value of my garden too
much the other thing that I'm adding in
is 2 cups of garden tone which is a 3
for 4 or I can't remember maybe a 4-3-3
fertilizer but this also has
micronutrients in it and right in here
and if you can see it but it has a Kali
colony forming bacteria so this is going
to put in a bunch of good bacteria into
the peat moss into my garden and we'll
see what it what it does it uh you know
boasts itself in saying that it helps
promote growth so it's 2 cups of this
one cup of garden line 1 cup of bone
meal
and well bone me on one cup of blood
meal this goes into the 18 gallon
container the reason that you want to
put it in first dry so that you can
really just mix it all in you're going
to you know spend a good two minutes or
so mixing this through and you can see
that's dry its dusty if you want to wear
a mask certainly go wear a mask the next
thing you want to do is really soak it
down and what you'll find is this water
goes right to the bottom and peat moss
will float so once you put in some water
you basically just have to put your hand
in and you can see that it's repelling
water you just have to really actually
rub it and press it together and it'll
probably take between five or ten
minutes so I'm going to prepare this
peat moss and I'll come back and show
you the rest of the video all right I
have soaked the peat moss down and again
peat moss is really really dry when you
get it and it really doesn't want to
absorb water so you have to pre-soak it
before you use it in your garden because
if you put in dry peat moss into your
garden sometimes it's just good a float
it's not really good absorb the water so
soak this down you really want to get it
to a point where when you squeeze it
maybe a couple of drops of water come
out but that note that lets you know
that you've soaked the peat moss through
and it's ready to use in your garden and
again just to review I put in one cup of
bone meal this is a slow-release
fertilizer that adds phosphorous to your
peat moss I used one cup of blood meal
it's a slow release nitrogen supplement
I used 1 cup of garden line the line is
to raise the pH level of the peat moss
peat moss is acidic lime is alkaline so
by adding in lime over the next couple
of months of winter this will help kind
of neutralize the acidity I don't really
have to worry about that in my garden I
happen to know that the pH level my
garden is about seven and I actually
want to bring down the pH level to make
a little more acidic to six point
five but if you are concerned about it
you could use two cups alignment here
and then I also use 2 cups of garden
tone which is a 3/4 for fertilizer so
it'll add some nutrients to the garden
but it also is called the bio tone
formula and it's adds in I don't know if
you can read it but if you look at the
garden tone formula it has a bunch of
microorganism microorganisms in there
and bacteria that are really that
designed to help your garden soil come
alive and help your plants thrive and
one thing that I'm trying to do this
year is in 2014 is really pay attention
to my soil structure I really want it to
be a living strong soil so that's why
I'm using a lot more organic products so
when you're preparing this it's about 10
gallons of dried peat moss into here put
in your fertilizers when it's dry mix it
in as you are then adding water and
mixing everything around you really
distribute the fertilizers nicely
throughout the product so this is ready
to be used in my garden I'm actually
going to do my next video on how to
double dig your garden and that's what
I'll be using this prepared peat moss
for I hope you enjoyed the video please
check out my blog at
www.mygreatsmile.com